docs: add version information for tools in the charming ecosystem (#2231)
canonical/operator: docs/explanation/versions.md

(tool-versions)=
# Tool versions

> In deciding which version of tools to use within the charming ecosystem, the base is the key constraint. Once the base is selected, use the latest supported version of each tool whenever possible.

Reviewer: Minor: I'd probably make this more active. Something like:

```suggestion
When you're deciding which version of tools to use within the charming ecosystem, the base is the key constraint. Once you have selected the base, use the latest supported version of each tool whenever possible.
```

> Charms should only support deployment on the LTS versions of Juju that are not yet end-of-life.

Reviewer: I think this should go somewhere else (best practices?) or probably fine to remove it, as LTS and end-of-life already imply this meaning

```suggestion
```

| 24.04 (Noble Numbat) | [3.12](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-for-developers/reference/availability/python/) | [2.9](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/juju_2.9.x/), [3.6](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/juju_3.6.x/), [4.0](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/juju_4.0.x/juju_4.0.0/) | [2.x](https://github.com/canonical/operator/blob/2.23-maintenance/SECURITY.md), [3.x](https://github.com/canonical/operator/blob/main/SECURITY.md) | [3.x](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmcraft/3.5.3/reference/platforms/#base), [4.x](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmcraft/stable/reference/platforms/#base) |

## Find your Pebble version from the Juju version

> Each version of Juju uses a specific version of Pebble. To determine which Pebble features are available to you, look up the Pebble version from the Juju version.

Reviewer: How about strengthening the first sentence. Something like:

```suggestion
Each version of Juju provides a fixed version of Pebble. To determine which Pebble features are available to you, look up the Pebble version from the Juju version.
```

### Juju

| Version | Status | Release Date | End of Bug Fixes | End of Life |
|---------|--------|--------------|-------------------|-------------|
| [Juju 2.9 (LTS)](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/juju_2.9.x/) | 🟢 Active | 2021-04-28 |  | 2035-04-28 |
| [Juju 3.0](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/unsupported/juju_3.x.x/) | 🔴 EOL | 2022-10-22 | 2023-02-22 | 2023-04-23 |
| [Juju 3.1](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/unsupported/juju_3.x.x/) | 🔴 EOL | 2023-02-06 | 2023-06-06 | 2023-08-06 |
| [Juju 3.2](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/unsupported/juju_3.x.x/) | 🔴 EOL | 2023-05-26 | 2023-09-26 | 2023-11-06 |
| [Juju 3.3](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/unsupported/juju_3.x.x/) | 🔴 EOL | 2023-11-10 | 2024-03-10 | 2024-05-10 |
| [Juju 3.4](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/unsupported/juju_3.x.x/) | 🔴 EOL | 2024-02-15 | 2024-06-15 | 2024-08-15 |

> | [Juju 3.5](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/releasenotes/unsupported/juju_3.x.x/) | 🔴 EOL | 2024-05-07 | 2024-09-07 | 2025-04-01 |

Author: Schooled in simple addition by a next-word-generator, how embarrassing!
